---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Final Project Proposal

## Introduction

Well, you made it to the final project, **congratulations!**

We know that it's been a long journey to get here and that there have been many
hardships and trials that you've had to endure on your journey as a student of
web development, but we are confident that you'll be able to create amazing
final projects to be proud of.

The final project is meant to be as open-ended as possible while still having
just enough requirements to ensure that you're able to use everything you've
learned to the fullest capacity and learn along the way. Think of the final
project as something you'd want to build at a hackathon, but spread out over 3-4
weeks. Let your imagination fly, let the wings of your mind soar, and let your
creativity sprout to be able to build whatever your heart desires. After all,
that's why we do what we do here with your web development skills - **we wish to
build**.

Our goal for the decal was to give you all the power to **build whatever you
could think of** - and now is the time to try doing so. Failure at first is
unfortunately essentially inevitable, but we hope that throughout the journey
you will be able to grow as both a developer and as a student.

## Project Proposal and Requirements

### Requirements

Your project must include a **design** component, a **frontend** component, and
a **backend** component. **As a guiding thought, try to create a project you'd
be proud to show off to your friends after you complete the course.** At the end
of the semester, you'll be presenting your project to the class.

Additionally, your project must include **at least one of:** a significant
backend or a significant frontend portion.

#### What do these entail?

A design component means that you must use at least one of (Figma, Adobe
Illustrator, or any other design tool) to prototype, wireframe, and design your
final project. For the wireframe, it should be **LOFI**, aka low fidelity. We
are not looking for something that's final and very detailed, as long as the
wireframe can convey your project idea and make people understand what you are
doing.

A front-end component means that you must use React/React Native to build your
final project. Feel free to use a component library from the following:
[React-Bootstrap](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/getting-started/introduction),
[Chakra UI](https://chakra-ui.com/),
[Theme UI](https://theme-ui.com/getting-started), and
[Material UI](https://material-ui.com/). Please post on Piazza if you would rather
use a different component library not listed. A **significant** frontend
component means that you must use the state feature of React/React Native in a
significant way, which means that it must either be extremely important to the
functionality of your project or worked within a large capacity (in most
projects that use react, the amount of javascript you write heavily outweighs
the amount of JSX and CSS you write). Using Typescript, Sass, or any other extra
technology is also a plus!

A back-end component means that you must use one of (AWS or any other cloud
platform, a database system such as MySQL, MongoDB, etc..., Node.js, Django). A
significant backend component would entail working with all of the following (A
database system such as MySQL, MongoDB, etc... (You can use a cloud-based
database such as Google Firebase or AWS DynamoDB), AWS or any other cloud
platform (In a way other than just as a database at the least), and one of
(Node.js, Django)).

### Project Proposal

Your project proposal must include an idea that must be somewhat fleshed out and
a list of what technologies you are planning to use and why. The project
proposal should be written down on a google doc or something similar.

Additionally, you must have a rough wireframe of your project created on Figma
to present at the project proposal night, alongside a formal architecture
diagram of your project. This is intended to help frontend students practice
design and for backend students to practice system design, but obviously,
anybody in the group can work on any part of the project proposal.

#### Helpful resources for wireframing

- [How to Wireframe](https://www.figma.com/blog/how-to-wireframe/) (Article)
- [Wireframing Basics](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aqdn7vVKygA) (Video)

#### Helpful resources for architecture diagrams

- [TikTok by Ben Awad](https://www.tiktok.com/@benawad/video/6933584439217769733?lang=en&is_copy_url=1&is_from_webapp=v1)

## Due Date and Presentation

TBD

## Moral Support

**We are here for you!**

This project may seem a little bit scary at first, but you will have all the
support from all the teachers and leadership to guide you through this project.

This is first and foremost a learning opportunity that should be fun! So don't
be afraid to ask plenty of questions (there are no stupid questions here), and
exploit Stack Overflow to your heart's content ~~(as long as there is no code
copying)~~.

---

**Contributors**

- [Samarth Goel](https://www.linkedin.com/in/samarth-goel-1047b8187/)
- [Arushi Somani](https://www.linkedin.com/in/arushisomani/)
